Throughout this course, I was challenged in many ways, and thoroughly enjoyed the journey throughout the lessons learned. The main problem that I had was implementing the design that I created for these programs. The data processing and manipulation was easier in design than in implementation. Many projects I have done in the past were not related to data manipulation so I appreciated all the focus on this area. I approached the problem by doing a lot of research on data structures, utilizing the class resources, and practicing in small portions. Making sure small simple coding tasks worked before moving on to more complicated tasks. Data structures are so important to understand because they are so common and knowing how to interact with them is a basic coding necessity. Understanding how the core works is essential to understand how to maipulate the data and support a data set that is flexible, efficient, and usable. I had a few roadblocks, but going back to my original pseduocode/design helped, as sometimes I could stray too far from the original goal while in the code too deep and trying to make the best decisions. As I mentioned, the work on data structures has been invaluble. It has given me a new respect for coding in general and great insight into an important area. I think it supports a very organized approach to programming. I definitely beleieve my work here has evolved my programming. Creating a program that is adaptble is challening on anothjer level and I believe it makes me a better and more well-rounded programmer.
